\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename evil.info
@include version.texi
@settitle Evil-mode manual
@c %**end of header
@include macros.texi

@copying
This manual is for evil-mode
(version @value{VERSION} from @value{UPDATED}),
an emulation mode for @vim{}-like keybindings for Emacs.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 @authors{}.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
Free Documentation License".
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* @evil{}: (evil-mode). An emulation mode for @vim{}-like key-bindings
  in Emacs.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title @evil{}
@subtitle An emulation mode for @vim{}-like key-bindings for Emacs.
@author @authors{}
@page
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top @evil{}

This is the reference manual to @evil{}, an Emacs extension to
emulate @vim{}-like key-bindings in Emacs.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                    An overview over the features of @evil{}.
* Using evil-mode::             
* Extending evil-mode::         
* Internal Structure::          
* Index::                       Complete index.

Appendices
* GNU Free Documentation License::  
@end menu

@node Overview, Using evil-mode, Top, Top
@chapter Overview of @evil{}

@Evil{} is an emulation mode for @vim{}-like key-bindings in Emacs.
@vim{} is the other famous editor in the *nix world (beside Emacs) which
is very powerful and widely used, see @uref{http://www.vim.org} for more
information about @vim{}. @Evil{} tries to provide the typical
feeling of writing in @vim{} to Emacs while preserving the extensibility
of Emacs, so the user can choose the best of both worlds.


@node Using evil-mode, Extending evil-mode, Overview, Top
@chapter Using @evil{}


@node Extending evil-mode, Internal Structure, Using evil-mode, Top
@chapter Extending @evil{} with new commands.


@node Internal Structure, Index, Extending evil-mode, Top
@chapter Internal structure of @evil{}

@node Index, GNU Free Documentation License, Internal Structure, Top
@unnumbered Index


@node GNU Free Documentation License,  , Index, Top
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl-1.3.texi

@bye



@c Local Variables: 
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: t
@c End: 
